Let's keep on going,
let's jump over to go testing.
Let's see if I put anything,
anything a little special,
I think I'm not sure, look that,
I even put in this error right here.
Look at that, I was smart enough
to catch myself, awesome.
So let's go next.
And we're gonna do the exact same thing.
Let's see, why did I add in go compare?
Here we go,
I actually added in one you could go get.
Here's a nice one, go compare, you could
use that or not gonna be using that.
Remember go has its own testing kind
of harness put into the gocode.
But it's pretty cumbersome
like the rest of Go,
there whole not equal nil error problem,
all that a lot more boilerplate.
This just makes it a lot nicer,
we're just not gonna use it.
So let's create another config file,
or yeah,
another test file called config_test for
the go project.
I know that transition was
a little abrupt, sorry about that.
We're now in go run, right.
All right, so let's go over to package,
projector, create a file, config.
Test.go, awesome.
Of course, so
now what is your package name?
Well, you have two options here.
And I think this is kinda
like a philosophy problem.
I personally always do the name of
the package underscore test, the LSP will
automatically kind of let you know that
that's one of your two main options here.
The reason why you should do that is that
it prevents you from being able to test
internals.
Once again, I just got done giving
this whole soliloquy about this but
I'm blackbox tester,
I just think it's the way to go.
And some people like more of that
gray box, white box kind of approach,
I always feel like it's just dangerous.
So for me, always do that.
It's very obvious what I'm trying to test
in this file because already I'm naming it
the same as the file.
But I can only do public interfaces.
>> Can you explain what you
mean by black box testing?
>> Black box testing effectively,
I believe it's named after the airplane
which I think black boxes are orange.
But there's just this device on airplane
that gathers data when the airplane
crashes and everybody is killed,
nobody knows what happened.
They grab out the black box and they can
effectively see what data comes out and
goes, this must have happened over here.
And so, it's kinda named after that where,
I don't know what's going on internally.
I just know what I can
put into the system and
what I expect to come
back out of the system.
So, I don't really know,
it's just a void area.
You don't have to know what it is.
And so white box obviously is
like the opposite of black box.
So you can see into the system, is
generally how it's been explained at least
to me and those were for my college years,
we were using those terms.
So that's ten years ago, so I don't
know if new suite testing terms have
even better things that
are more descriptive but
that's how we talked about airplanes and
great stuff.
Orange is the new black box testing.
This is true.
This is an actual fact.
All right, so let's write the config test.
Now again, go is a bit more verbose
if you don't use a library, but
we're gonna deal with it
because we are champions.
So all of your functions
to start off with test.
You'll even see that tab 9, great
auto complete product will go off and
say, hey, this is probably
what you're trying to type.
I'm just gonna say yes on it.
And let's just, hey, why not?
That seems good.
So let's go TestConfigPrint, right?
Awesome, of course,
you have to include the testing library.
Effectively this is just a library that
is part of the STD that they provide,
you will be able to run this
project via Go test, and
you just provide a path or
you can test everything.
And there you go, now we're ready
to start testing this function.
So a little bit better than I'd say the
TypeScript experience in the sense that
testing is inherent to TypeScripts or
to go as opposed to testing is
something you add on to TypeScripts.
So I like that approach, I like a language
that's thought about it that supports it.
So we have a lot of things we can do, but
really the most useful thing
is gonna be Error or Errorf.
Effectively this will break your program
and say, hey, this line failed right here,
go check it out, and you can put it
in a nice little message, fantastic.
So let's do that right now.
So if you remember, GoLang duck
typing just like TypeScript walks
like a duck quacks like a duck,
it obviously is a giraffe.
And so,
that is how GoLang does all these things.
So we don't need to actually to create
the same type as long as we have
the same shape, it should all work out.
But since we're not dealing with any
methods, we can just import.type,
create one, and we should be good to go.
So I'll do that right now, I'll go
projector, it's gonna say hey, yes,
we probably should be using that.
And I can just simply go to a ops, right?
Cuz we need to create an ops
to pass into our config.
So let's create that.
I assume everybody love my really
great joke about a giraffe,
made it up on the spot,
feel pretty good about it.
Let's paste that in.
So let's create a simple empty object,
right?
So I'm just gonna go args
is empty string array.
A config is gonna be just an empty string.
And present working directory
is just an empty string.
There we go, we've done it, we've created
this thing, I just kinda copied it over,
so it's very obvious how
I got to this point So
let's just do the very simple test,
we'll go config =, I believe there's gonna
be an error as well if I
remember our interface correctly.
We'll just go projector
NewConfig pass in ops.
And of course we need to
pass it in as a reference.
Please remember it takes in a pointer.
We didn't create it this pointer,
we could have easily created that
as a pointer by putting it up here.
Honestly, does it really matter?
Probably not.
To make things a little bit nicer, I'll
see if my refactoring tool actually works,
getOpts, it didn't work, that just hurts.
Okay, well, it sort of worked.
I go in, we'll put it in here,
opts, projector., there we go.
Fantastic, so now I'm just gonna use this
and one last thing we're gonna do is I'll
just pass in arg cuz we're
gonna type this a few times.
So we might as well just
abstract it out a little bit,
so we don't have to keep typing the same
thing over and over and over again, right?
So there we go.
Now I can simply just do the old
string that, there we go.
Beautiful, right?
A little abstraction in
your tests are fine.
I try to keep it always to a minimum.
Anytime I find myself doing an if
statement in my test, I have
to slow down for a second go like am I
making the right decisions with my life or
have I now added in something that
needs to be tested that's a test?
And you never wanna be in that spot.
All right, so let's do pretty much
everything you'd expect it to do, right?
We gotta do a little error checking.
If there is an error, and we didn't expect
an error, we need to do a t.rrorf and
I can just simply do a,
I expected to get no error, right?
Very great English everything is
fantastic, everyone should understand.
So unfortunately again like I said,
it's just more verbose, and
you can kinda see the verbosity
about to happen, right?
So now when I do config I'll
have to do something like this,
if config.Args there is a deep equals, so
this is actually pretty cool,
reflect.DeepEquals, right?
So I can do a deep equals
on this thing to say, hey,
does this array have the same
shape as the one I'm providing?
If you look at the deep equals
it has a xy any awesome.
And so I can do something along
the lines of I expect my config to have,
let's see, config.Args, I don't know
where that went wrong, there we go.
And it should return that, awesome.
So if that's not the case,
then we got ourselves something wrong.
All right, expected args to be
an empty string array, but got,
and will do little +v in there.
So that way we get that nice,
beautiful print, config.Args.
So now that we've written a single test,
let's see how this goes, right?
Let's actually see if
this will be successful.
So I'm gonna erase that,
jump over here and go go test.
Now, this is effectively
the syntax to say,
go find everything that has a test and
run it.
I can point it to something directly or
I can just say run all the tests.
Hit Enter,
if I've done everything correct, awesome.
So I just said, hey, there's no test files
inside of P2 which is a problem from
yesterday, there's no test
files inside of projector.
There is a test file here, we've ran it,
took very, very little time, awesome.
You'll also notice that go did compile
everything while we did that, and
it ran really, really fast.
And that's because, Go again, weird
syntax makes super fast compilation, and
often tests and all this other extra
infrastructure that you're waiting on,
just go so fast, and
I just think it's pretty awesome.
There we go.
So we have something that works,
we could abstract this out to make
the rest of testing pretty easy.
If you can kinda see, really all I'm
gonna be testing is this string array,
all I'm gonna be testing
is don't throw an error and
we could effectively just go through and
make a pretty simple meta test.
For the sake of this,
we're just gonna kinda keep it simple and
I'll just cut and paste it.
All right, let's go print key and
I'm gonna go over here and go foo, and
I should be able to see in here foo,
right, awesome.
We'll abstract out,
there we go, run it again.
We'll abstract out the next testing
we'll do, and that'll be great.
But for this one,
I just wanna kinda keep it simple.
There we go,
let's go Add key value, right?
Exact same thing.
Add foo, bar, awesome.
I also noticed that I did not
test see problem by copying and
pasting code, right?
If okay, you know what,
I'm gonna abstract it.
I can't do it anymore.
It always hurts me emotionally to cut
copy and paste too many things and so
I'm just gonna do this testConfig.
So we'll do something simple we'll
go args which is a string or
an array of strings
the operation you expect, right?
Operation which is gonna be
an op projector.Operation.
There we go.
I tried to hold out cuz I don't
want to do too much of that.
And of course,
we need to do a testing.t, there we go.
So as long as we do that,
we should be able to effectively copy and
paste all this code.
So I'm just gonna go like this, delete
all that, put it right here, fantastic.
Take that paste it, I don't know
why did that and make sure that
the config.Operation equals the operation
that I expected which is operation.
Operation expected was this but
got that fantastic, right?
Config.Operation and operation, right?
Wrong way.
You definitely don't wanna do that,
that will lead to a lot of confusion.
Awesome, right?
So now I should just go
to go testConfig and
pass in t an empty string array,
and of course print, right?
Projector print.
Awesome, that's what I wanted to do.
Erase this, Foo,
let's just erase that for a second.
Let's make sure everything's going great,
awesome.
We got a fail.
What is our fail?
No test file, no test files.
Wait, missing this,
of course, classic really.
Really just a classic right there.
It's somewhere in here,
it's right there, there we go.
That's what I was missing, had a colon.
And now we have a fail test 32 expected 0,
but got 0, so
that does feel a little emotionally
difficult to handle right now.
And I think the main problem was is
that I was doing an equal sign there.
And so you don't wanna do that.
When you're testing, you don't want to
be so positive and then throw an error,
it just feels wrong to do.
For those that didn't just catch up
because they're looking at their code,
it was double equal.
So I was actually testing for what I
wanted to see and then throwing an error.
All right, fantastic,
TestConfig, TestConfig.
YAP, that Y-A-P, I always say, yap but if
you're wondering what I mean, Y stands for
Yank, A stands for Around,
P stands for Paragraph.
YAP, I just copied that.
Now I can just paste with P, fantastic.
YAP but you can also DAP it, you can DAP
on the haters, delete around paragraph,
there we go, fp do a little AddKeyValue.
Yes, my wife is exhausted
of me at some times.
All right bar, FP Add awesome.
Once, I've done everything correctly,
we should be able to see it, but
we did not see it.
So what just happened there?
I think we have ourselves
potentially an actual issue, right?
Because I would've expected to see this,
but you know what we didn't do.
We have this.
Uh-oh, we might have ourselves a little
bit of an interesting problem going on
right here, is that I didn't
do the args throw out here.
So, we're actually testing nothing.
Again, danger of doing
meta type programming.
There we go, everything's good.
We rerun it, now we have a new one
expected args to be an empty string but
dot foo bar line 28.
All right, so
we don't expect it to be an empty string.
Expected args to be % plus v but
got that, there we go.
All right, so let's see what we did,
let's see what we got went wrong here.
We expected add foo bar but got foo bar.
No, so part of the problems of abstracting
you always find these things in, right?
So now we are gonna have to do something
even more annoying, args, there we go.
Now we have the expected and
there we go we can do that.
Shockingly, I did effectively plan for
this to be part of the course because I
did wanna show really the reason why you
should be using Go copy is that you end
up doing this kind of stuff all the time
in Go test if you don't
use an additional library.
Strongly recommend using an additional
library, but I just feel like it's really
good to see kinda what the language itself
offers before you go off and do that.
So I'd expect the same thing,
awesome, expect the same thing here.
All right, there we go.
And of course remove that.
Awesome, so
everything should now be fantastic.
We're good to go.
We've just created our own slightly
verbose testing library here fa,
do the exact same thing remove key,
rm, oopsies, dt that, there we go.
And of course that means we
should just have foo, right?
And it should be an ad.
So long as everyone followed along,
we all have effectively the same code.
I could have in lined all this.
Which one's better?
Is this better to have?
Well, one thing that kind of stinks with
these libraries that don't give you a full
stack trace right away.
When we had an error, you kind of had to
deduce where did this failure come from?
Now, if you're doing something
that's checking multiple times,
you're just simply gonna get
this single line failure.
But it could have been checked
three times in your function.
So now you're off to, well,
I guess I'm gonna print to find
which one's the actual failing one.
If you can't figure out why.
If you can't figure out from this, right?
I just happen to be able to figure
that out cuz we only call it one, so
it's pretty easy to figure that out.
So always kind of a danger, one nice part
about Jess is that Jess gives you that
full kinda stack trace so you know exactly
where and how these things went wrong.
Overall though,
pretty good experience, right?
Happy to have this, I'm very happy
to have a language that supports it.
It's fast.
I don't have to wait a long time, and
it kind of drives you to
make your stuff really fast.
All right, let's move on to rust and
do some beautiful rust testing.
Let's see, I'm on look at this one,
did I do this?
No, nice look in my other version,
I only did two tests and
I didn't obstruct anything.
Okay fantastic.